---
layout: post
title: "Blog 3: My experience with the Raspberry Pi"
author: im-coder-lg
color: blue
excerpt-seperator: <!--more-->
toc: true
tags:
    - new
    - raspberry-pi
---

Well, hello. Been a LONG time, right? Yeah, sorry :( I had dillemas of my own, I was busy helping other repos and I forgot this one. Sorry about that.
<!--more-->

Well, what is new? I have a CODEDOC blog, and as a change, this blog is hosted on Vercel.

I learnt Next.js, and am helping on multiple projects. Fun.

I now have an addition to my creativity and learning of Linux. A Raspberry Pi.

It is worth it, and I just love it.

So, can we start onto the introduction?

> Yes.

# What is the Raspberry Pi?
Now, have you ever wished for a minicomputer that can do the job like you do at a behemoth and a mammoth computer? Well, I have.

The Raspberry Pi is a really small minicoputer that can get you up and runnin' with just little things. All you need is simple: The Raspberry Pi, a power cable and an SD Card(for the OS) and if you want to plug it into a monitor, a case, a micro-HDMI to HDMi cable by Raspberry Pi and a keyboard+mouse combo/individual sets. You can get any variant, a 2 GB or 4 GB or ***8 GB*** Raspberry Pi.

After I got mine, I flashed Ubuntu 21.04 on to the image. It worked well, except that it was laggy. I didn't have an extra monitor(and I didn't need one).

So what?

> I plugged it into my TV.

My TV showed that the display was 30 frames per second, meaning that the display refreshes 30 times every second. It was rather slow and I advise you all to install Raspberry Pi OS if you want to use it on a TV. Use the image that gives the desktop too, since you need that later.

So, after I reflashed Raspbian(Raspberry Pi OS running Debian and only Debian) kinda twice/thrice, I had good luck. I at first hated the PIXEL desktop but then started liking it since it looked simple. And it was never laggy.

Now, beginners who just bought a Raspberry Pi and don't know how to get it up and running, you are in luck.

# Getting the Pi up and running
So, for this, you need your Raspberry Pi, a power source, and your existing computer.

Firstly, get the Raspberry Pi OS image(around 1.2 GB). Make sure to get the one with the desktop since you need that later.

Next, get the Raspberry Pi Imager. I recommend this since it flashes official images.

Get your SD card adapter and plug it in your computer.

Then, wait until your computer recognizes it. After that, start the Imager app you installed before.

Then, click the OS button, scroll down and select the `Use Custom` button and select you recently downloaded Rspberry Pi OS image.

Then, click `Choose Storage` and select the SD Card.

Wait for 5-10 minutes, the OS will be flashed and verified(why do you need that?).

Next, plug your SD Card to the Raspberry Pi. Just flip the Pi, and you will see a slot near the power socket. Plug the SD Card, the logo facing up. Then, plug into a power source, get the HDMI cable(for using it with a display), plug it into your monitor/TV, and get your keyboard and mouse. Boot the Pi up. 

After the boot, you will be welcomed by the Welcome window. Click the Next button and configure the Raspberry Pi.

There you go! Your Raspberry Pi is ready to start working!

## Additional steps
### Enabling SSH, VNC, etc.
#### GUI method(best for beginners)
Now, on your Raspberry Pi, open the Menu button(it has a raspberry on it) and check evry folder. Once you find an app called "Raspberry Pi Configuration", open that and check EVERY SINGLE TAB. Once you find a list of things like Camera, SSH and VNC, toggle your choices and click the Apply button.
#### The Terminal method(for the expert and lord of Raspbian)
1. Open Terminal
2. Type `sudo raspi-config`
3. Check `Interface methods` and toggle everything as you wish.


#### Set aliases as shortcuts
Now, I am one of the people who want the Raspi-Config to bot up when I type `rpi-config`. Saves a lot of time.

**This** is how you do it.
1. Open Terminal
2. Type `sudo nano ~/.bashrc`
3. Type `alias shortcommand="large command"` where `shortcommand` is your shortened one and `large command` is it's big version.
4. Save the file with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> and exit via <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>X</kbd>
4. Source the `~/.bashrc` file(`source ~/.bashrc`)

Well, hope you like this! This is 88 lines(raw mode on Gitpod) and the 89th one is blank. EOB(End of Blog). See ya!
